QCOMP7

linsert(expr, list, pos)
   Inserts an expression "expr" into a list "list" at position "pos".
   The list could be empty and "pos" must be an integer between 1 and the
   length of "list" plus 1.

binlist([n])
   Should be called with one or two arguments, binlist(k) or binlist(k,n),
   where k and n are natural numbers. With only one argument, a list of
   binary digits is returned, which are the representation of k in binary.
   With two arguments, zeros are included at the beginning in order
   to return a list with exactly n binary digits. Notice that for the result
   to represent a possible state of m qubits, n should be equal to 2^m and
   k should be between 0 and 2^m-1.

binlist2dec(l)
   Given a list with n binary digits, it returns the decimal number it
   represents.


tprod([ops])
   Returns the tensor product of n matrices or n lists

normalize(q)
   Returns the normalized version of a quantum state given as a list q

qubits([b])
   Returns a list with 2^n elements, representing the state of n qubits.
   The argument can be a single natural number n, or n binary digits.
   If given only one natural number, greater than 1, it returns the ground
   state for a system of n qubits.
   If given n binary digits (n can be 1), it returns the state of a system
   of n qubits with those binary values.

gate(U,q,[bits])
   Applies matrix U, a 2 by 2 matrix, on oe or more qubits on the state
   q of a system of n qubits. U can be a symbol representing one of the
   predefined matrices.
   There must be a second argument, corresponding to the state of a system
   of n qubits.
   If no more arguments are given, the matrix will act in all of the qubits.
   If there are more arguments, they should be one or more different
   natural numbers, between 1 and n, and the matrix will act in the qubits
   corresponding to those numbers.
   It modifies the list q and returns that new list.

gate_matrix(U,n,[bits])
   Creates the matrix corresponding to the action of a single qbit matrix U
   acting on one of several of the qubits in a state of n qbits.
   The first argument must be a 2 by 2 matrix or a symbol representing one
   of the predefined matrices.
   There must be a second argument, a natural number, corresponding to the
   total number of qbits.
   If no more arguments are given, the matrix will act in all of the qubits.
   If there are more arguments, they should be one or more different
   natural numbers, between 1 and n, and the matrix will act in the qubits
   corresponding to those numbers.
   It returns a 2^n by 2^n matrix.

controlled(U,q,i,j)
   Applies operator U to the j'th qubit, in a state q of m qubits, when
   the value of the i'th qubit equals 1.
   U can be a 2 by 2 matrix or a symbol representing one of the predefined
   matrices.
   It modifies the list q and returns its modified value.

CNOT(q,i,j)
   Changes the value of the j'th qubit, in a state q of m qubits, when
   the value of the i'th qubit equals 1.
   It modifies the list q and returns its modified value.

toffoli(q,i,j,k)
   Changes the value of the k'th qubit, in a state q of m qubits, when
   the value of the i'th snf j'th qubitd equal 1.
   It modifies the list q and returns its modified value.

qmeasure(q,[bits])
   Measures the value of one or more qubits in a system of n qubits with
   state q.
   It requires 1 or more arguments. The first argument must be the state q.
   If no more arguments are given, all the n qubits will be measured.
   If more arguments are given, they should be different natural numbers
   between 1 and n, and the state of those qubits will be measured.
   It returns a list with the values of the qubits measured (either 0 or 1),
   in the same order that the were requested or in ascending order if no
   second argument was given.
   It modifies the list q, reflecting the collapse of the quantum state
   after the measurement.

qdisplay(q)
   Represents the state q of a system of n qubits as a linear combination
   of the computational states with n binary digits.
   It returns an expression including strings and symbols.

Predefined matrices
-------------------
I, X, Y, Z, H, S, T, Rx(ang), Ry(ang), Rz(ang)
